(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)


### (0:00 - 1:01)
When I'm speaking, there's a little bit of friction. What is it? It will be something not positive. That's the difference between where you're coming at all this from and where I'm coming at all this from.


Whenever you're in a backwards world, you kind of have to carve out for yourself a sanctuary that's going the opposite direction within that backwards world. I could never forget non-physical reality. I'm literally looking at it all day long.


Now, this offers truths to me that other people do not see. Most people want to be like, oh, is there this multidimensional process that I can do to heal all this trauma? And I'm like, look, it's this simple. It's these really tangible actions, actually, that change the pattern that do the most for ancestral healing.


How have you navigated your own human shadow in the light of so much public perception? Oh, this is the hell of my life. To be honest with you, it's become harder and harder to hold onto my light, not the shadow, because of how often you acquaint yourself with people who love you to death, only to become your greatest haters later. There are entire aspects of my personality which people have decided don't get to exist.


### (1:03 - 2:06)
Often great tragedies are required for humanity to have the opportunity to awaken. What do you see is to come? Society is the sum of its pieces. So if the individuals within a society are doing this work and you see them wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up, it causes a massive shift within the society itself.


By doing so, even when you've got such powerful forces against you, you can be in profound levels of alignment. And therefore your life experience is going to be different from that place. Hello, beautiful beings.


Welcome back to the Know Thyself podcast, where every single week we get the honor and privilege to sit down with a brilliant mind to learn more about the true nature of self and the world around us at deeper levels every single week. Our guest today is a spiritual thinker, teacher, speaker, author. She really supports people from all walks of life with trauma, healing, and the whole awakening process.


And today we're going to be diving deep into ancestral healing, unlocking our spiritual gifts, the dynamics of relationships, and so much more. So I'm looking forward to it. Teal Swan, thanks for being here.


### (2:06 - 4:56)
It's good to be here. Yeah. So I want to start with you about personality, actually.


Because I think largely who we presume that we are, and being the Know Thyself podcast, we really like to focus on who we think we are in the self. It's accumulated impressions, these memories of who we think we are, passed down information from our ancestry. And that conditioning then becomes the colored tinted glasses in which we look through life and we think that it's us.


And so I would love for you to share what you think about the personality as you work with so many humans from all walks of life. When you look at somebody's personality, how have you reframed that to allow people to tap into something deeper? I have an interesting answer to this, because I encourage people to embrace their personality in the same way that I encourage them to embrace the ego. But the personality is largely a construct that is an amalgamation of those adaptations which made each person safest in the environment that they specifically grew up in.


So we can't really look at the personality as it has developed throughout life and say that that's truly all of who somebody is. It is part of who somebody is, though. So we have to be able to hold the dichotomy of it's an element of self, but it also is not the full story of self.


I think the beauty in doing that is that there's some flexibility around the self. And what I notice when people are really wanting to find themselves is they're looking for something so profoundly solid, something that will not change, you know, and that's not the nature of identity. Yeah, I definitely don't.


I think we're such fluid creatures and we can identify with so many different aspects of ourselves that are parts but not of the whole. And so what do you look at when you see the different parts of ourselves that make us who we are when somebody just comes to you and is trying to find themselves? Obviously personality or the ego self is one perspective, but then what's the full pie? Full pie is perfect awareness of all elements of the self. So I'm trying to draw attention to the element that does not change.


That's like the consciousness or the witness consciousness that is essentially both watching and putting on this whole show. At the same time as helping a person to become aware of all these different aspects of themselves because so many aspects of self maybe other people see but a person themselves doesn't see. So when somebody comes to me and they say I want to find myself, all that means to me is I want to become more and more and more and more aware of what is going on that I identify with, that I call me.


Okay, then we have to look at job, we have to look at ancestry, we have to look at your connection to your non-physical consciousness, we have to look at the types of unsafety you face and the adaptations you made to that. We have to look at your values. It's a very long list.


### (4:58 - 6:02)
One of the things on that very long list which you've spent a lot of time recently focusing on is the ancestral healing side of things and so I'd love for you to share why you've put so much importance recently with your work on delineating the different differences between our mother and our father lineages and both the gifts and the challenges that we've inherited. I mean as a shadow worker you can't not be about a person's origins. The problem is that we're incredibly limited when we think about our origins.


The vast majority of people who are doing healing work or integrative work are taking a person back to just what they in their individual lifetime have experienced. Beyond that a lot of people are focused on past lives and none of this takes into account the thing that perhaps influences who we are in this life, our identity that we chose into before we came here, the portions of our identity we chose into before we came here as our ancestral lineage does. It's the cards that you chose before coming here.


### (6:04 - 6:27)
So not really having an awareness about that is like not knowing what cards you're playing with in life and that's sad for a myriad of reasons. One of the reasons why we came down into this kind of construct is to say I want to create expansion in this family line. So every individual that's born into a family comes into that family as the progression for that family line.


### (6:28 - 6:51)
That means that each and every one of us took on the challenge of embodying those elements of mastery that come through a family line whilst alchemizing the elements that are not necessarily serving the family line. That's serious consciousness work. It's saying okay maybe for so many generations our families just expected the worst to happen.


### (6:52 - 7:24)
Now my expectation of the worst to happen is setting me up so that I can't even use the laws that govern this time-space reality to create. So that probably doesn't serve us anymore. I need to be the one to change that.


I just think it's very powerful for people to understand where the origin is of these things that they're experiencing and also to recognize patterns within the whole. Not just patterns within the self because we're looking at a microcosm of the macrocosm when we're looking at an individual's life. All of us are experiencing ancestral trauma.


### (7:25 - 11:04)
We're carrying on those those deals from grandparents, great-grandparents, great-great grandparents without even knowing it. And what I've noticed is that when people become aware of that whole story it enables them to take ownership of something but also to depersonalize it at the same time. It actually what I've noticed is puts them more in a space of empowerment about all right if that's how it has been and it hasn't been serving what do I do differently.


Also recognizing those very powerful elements that you don't even need to work on. I mean some family lines have already mastered abundance for example. How great to be like all right I may be working on relationships in this lifetime but I don't have any issue with money.


And to just own that is okay. I'm playing with some aces. So much of the focus I think when it comes to healing work is like what's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? And so it's good to give people some of those power cards to become conscious of and be like confidence.


Yeah so I'm excited to dive deeper into both the challenges and the gift side of things. How important do you because you mentioned how important do you feel like is it to delineate where in time and space the story of an origin actually even started? Because we might have this behavioral compensation for people pleasing or abandonment or whatever it is. But how necessary is it that we find you know where it started? Can we just observe the pattern and work with it in real time? I don't know how to quantify this for you because I'm one of those people who will tell you that the more information you have the more conscious you're going to be about changing the whole thing.


But it's not like I'm going to draw a line and say it's absolutely necessary. Why? Because the patterns that are still active from within your ancestral line are going to be affecting you in your day-to-day life. It's just that most people don't know that.


Most people when they're dealing with you know an issue with success or an issue with their relationships they don't see that the origin started before their time with a great grandparent or parent or something. They're really not looking at that level of things. But let's say that they had no awareness of it.


They were adopted or something and they've still got this thing going on. They wouldn't necessarily have to know that to change it in their own life. They are doing ancestral healing anyway.


It's just most of us can relate to that juicy incredible almost crystallized feeling of being like oh wait oh my gosh look there's emotional abandonment running through my dad's line like I can see it in the way that they that his parents interacted with him. Wait where did that come from? Now going back to your great grandparents being like oh that's weird. You know he grew up in this time in this place and this is how he was raised because of whatever war for example.


It crystallizes the why behind the whole thing for people. So it's just like the better it gets the better it gets. But what I'm really wanting to do for people is to have them recognize these patterns and these patterns as they occur across history.


Most especially because right now in the world let's just say that ancestral trauma that is playing out on a mass scale is about to repeat in a very serious way. In a way we would do very well to avoid. So if we can't recognize these patterns within ourselves they're going to play out again.


So I want to go into the how side of things in the moment like the process of letting go those narratives and all that but first I just want you to speak to the power of on an individual level realizing the ripple effects that that healing has you know because when you actually transmute that within yourself you know some traditions say seven generations back and forward you heal that so then the suffering isn't passed on to your future generation. And so just yeah talk about the importance of doing this inner work. Because you didn't just cover it yourself.


### (11:08 - 13:09)
Well obviously when you're whenever you take a pattern a frequency it's repeating this is like over and over again and maybe the way that it's repeating is causing some kind of a detrimental effect. Any alteration we make to that pattern it alters the effect. So essentially what we're doing is clearing up everything in our line so that what comes next can be the progression rather than the repetition of some kind of a pattern.


Now we we can understand how that works in our own life right how that works in our own life is maybe I've had an issue because of you know mom or dad with emotional availability right. Now I recognize that I start working like anybody would on something they recognize in themselves they don't really like very much. I start working on being more available emotionally.


Now let's say that I've got a child and I'm more emotionally available for that child. That child is not going to experience the same kind of emotional experiences in their relationships that the child would have if I had just continued on with that that pattern of emotional unavailability. Now that the ripple effect of this like I literally will not be able to go into it deep enough because we could be here for days and days and days and days for this.


But just to give you like a small little sprinkling of a taste of this let's say that this child now unlike everybody else in the family line has emotional availability. Because of that this child does not become an addict because emotional neglect is really the root of most addictions not arguably all of them. So let's see because this child does not become an addict their energy is channeled more into their passions.


Now let's just pretend that in this this case this child's passion is architecture. Life path number one with emotional neglect becomes an addict ends up in the street. Life path number two not an addict becomes an architect that starts to design the new earth.


### (13:11 - 29:59)
Are you serious right now? Now if you just start to play that out on that person's partners, that person's children, that person's friends it just starts to be like the ripples around this right that even impacts their interaction with the the pets they have. It's everything you touch. It feels completely infinite to the degree it's like one interaction that the healed version life path number two would have an interaction with one person and how that affects how he shows up in his life.


It's like it's impossible to quantify but the the impact is very real and felt. Oh yeah. Yeah oh when you when you get up to that level where you can see that all these ripple effects it's so mind-blowing and it changes your reactions to things.


I'm noticing this in myself a lot when I'm spending time with people when people are not at that level where they see the ripple effects easily it's like they don't take things seriously whereas if you see those ripple effects you may be freaking out at something most people like what is your deal like this is not a big deal you're understand you do this in 30 years from now you know definitely makes life more difficult but yeah it's the reality whether we want to accept it or not for sure so getting the context and the understanding like we spoke to is valuable the more that we can understand where the origins regardless if you have awareness as to what the pattern is that's a starting place no matter how much context of the story of where it originated from is but then what is the process once awareness to a certain degree because there's levels of awareness is established then the process of actually transmuting it I know there's many different ways but what have you found is like most effective modalities and actually being able to release those you know what's funny is I my answer is actually it's not as esoteric as most people want to go most people especially when they meet people like me want to be like oh is there this multi-dimensional thing process that I can do to heal all this trauma and I'm like look it's this simple recognize the pattern what's the pattern change action thought in the direction of that change end of story it's about it's about free will it's about exerting your free will to change that pattern so recognizing something that's detrimental what would the I don't even want to say opposite what would the healing experience be what would the opposite action be and then carrying that out now you can do that on the level of just like recognizing a trauma that needs some kind of resolution or recognizing a detrimental behavior that needs you to behave in a different way but this can go as far as recognizing things like ancestral karma so if we look back in our past quite often our ancestors created some kind of negative karma for us and really all that is is also a pattern right it's just the law of cause and effect in action so all right let's say that way back in the day I realized that the people in my family may have exploited a certain kind of animal right okay well what would be clearing karma for that something I actually want to own well maybe it's helping that animal instead so it's these really tangible actions actually that change the pattern of the do the most for ancestral healing like sure you can do transcendental meditations or medicine work where you meet your ancestors and do you know all this airy fairy stuff but and I love that stuff don't get me wrong but it's it's like this is not the level that it creates the most impact sure yeah I know people don't like that they like the magic stuff there's going to be plenty of magic in this conversation so and this is magic what do you feel about the difference between fully feeling those feelings like if it boils down to some sort of grief that needs to be fully felt versus actually just seeing how it's not real you know it's like the impartial part of us that can see that it's illusory like how do you what do you see the efficacy of both of those paths I'm so glad you're asking me this question because this drives me crazy okay I'm trying to trying to back up off of my own personal trigger around this I actually I have a big issue with people in the spiritual field who come at life with this attitude of it's an illusion it's not this dimension here which we are currently experiencing is not an illusion it is a construct we have created which is very real so is the opposite so when people say looking at something as if it's an illusion it is to nullify an entire reality with some other reality what we need to be doing is to be able to expand our perspective to be able to hold dichotomies that means here in this time-space reality there is absolutely death there is absolutely loss in another dimensional reality there's no death and there's no loss both are true so it's it's about the the process of expanding our perspective to be able to hold both what that creates is is usually this it's a kind of an energy where that that more witness consciousness which is of course more part of those dimensional fields where things are an illusion are able to come in and and really hold the process of you going through the the grief for example they're able to validate that experience rather than invalidate that experience what we have in the spiritual field is mass escapism I am very much in favor of going through the emotions feeling those feelings while at the same time holding that there's this whole other other truth within the universe it is possible to hold both it's just that human consciousness wants black or white we don't want to be able to hold both is your own personal trigger on that because you just have been exposed to the I've watched how much extreme damage is done in the spiritual field by teachers who teach from that platform it's I mean it's one of those things where when you see the ripple effects it's like it's very hard to not get you know yeah yeah I hear I hear you yeah I think there's a lot of value in what you just shared are you open to sharing a little bit more of your own personal father and mother lineages and yeah the trauma or challenges I don't know where to start right now pick your favorite my dad's line okay where should I go with that though like there's so much I know so much that it's like I don't know where to start off what would you say is like the the most dominant wound that came from that side and potentially gift we could do both for each the most dominant gift that came from my father's side would definitely be endeavor it's a very interesting family line because they came to I've been talking like all lines of this family came to America very very early when I say very early I'm talking Jamestown Mayflower the energy around this family is is always like the new horizon they're entrepreneurs my forefathers on that side were literally the they were the forefathers of American business tycoons who came here to create whatever life they wanted to create for themselves and so I continue to watch in this family line just this constant endeavor like I tell I've been telling you like if we decide to colonize the moon that family lines like we're there you know the detrimental aspect that runs through that family line is there's no attachment I mean if you're going to just leave everything behind go to a new world and just keep doing that over and over and over again there can't really be a bond to anything or anyone around you so there's like an emotional vacuum or an attachment vacuum it's like hey Johnny I know you were just born you're never going to know me I've got better things to be focused on you know yeah so I definitely suffer from that on the mom side so that's both the gift and the wound the endeavor you know yeah actually in a little bit I think one plays off the other sure you'll notice that's often the case yeah yeah okay so for mom's side the gift that's coming through that line is something that I call the lamb it's actually it's like a frequency that's very near Christ consciousness there's an innocence that runs through the children in that line which is super divine and it comes with a lot of spiritual gifts the problem is is that the lamb very quickly finds itself in extreme amounts of darkness and trauma and the question is is it going to stay pure or is it going to become corrupted and the answer is quite often it becomes corrupted in that line to be honest with you I'm a little it's like daunting I it's a little bit overwhelming and by a little bit I mean a lot with the sheer amount of abuse and just this insane repetition of senseless tragedies so running through that line and I definitely see in myself is just a constant panic attack about bad things are going to happen really bad things are going to happen because they always did and I'm talking really bad really freak accident level stuff so we're trying to we're trying to break through that relationship with the universe which is proving very difficult yeah I'm glad you can laugh at it some days yeah yeah so when you look back because that that mother aside lineage feels like there's just a lot of weight and and so much there and feels like is what has activated so much of your life path and gifts now and all of that and like you spoke to the gifts and the challenges are kind of tied inherently in there when you see that and you feel that from your mom's side like if you're open to sharing one example of like what what is that dark possibility of that lamb that then falls into the dark side of things and then we can go into you know how you were able to unlock more of your gifts well I mean that that tragedy played out in my life and it definitely can lead down the road of just giving up on everything because you're just going to suffer so definitely the manifestation within my own life is suicidality what it is is it's like there there has to be sort of almost like an access to the light that's underneath that whole thing so where I keep returning to to try to resolve this and I'm it's probably gonna be better places that I discover is finding moments of joy like when you're in a prison cell is it possible to be maybe looking at a puddle on the side of the room and the way the light reflects off that puddle and to recognize the beauty in a moment of absolute tragedy I'm not going to say that it makes the rest of it worth it certainly hasn't yet but it's very when you're getting consumed by that sort of darkness and that misery it's very hard to let light penetrate and I've definitely watched so many people in that family line where the light no longer penetrates and they're no longer able to access their own vulnerability that's another danger that I've watched in myself it's like you just you have to adapt to so much extreme misfortune that you just become an inaccessible person in terms of the vulnerable aspects itself there's a vulnerability along with this powerful lightness to that lamb energy so how do we stay connected to that even in the worst moments that's the question so in those moments of our development where we felt unsafe then we create barriers to that pain but then also that creates barriers to the upper limits of our joy and gifts and all that is there a dominant moment pivotal moment that sticks out when you really broke through to to that barrier and got access to the depth of the pain and then also on the other side yeah I would say that's a continual process for me yeah but let me think about a moment about two years ago I was working on like a superiority complex because I was starting to recognize that in myself the way that it manifested is no matter what room I walked in I was like I can do everything that people are doing better than they can do it it's annoying me it was starting to cause me pain actually because it just feels like you're by yourself surrounded by idiots so I was first starting to witness the fact that that superiority dynamic that I was going into must be some kind of a coping mechanism and covering for something and it definitely was it originated from feeling like I could not trust anybody in childhood and therefore had to overcompensate by essentially doing everybody's job better so that at least I had some kind of control when you're caught up in the superiority complex it's like you don't you don't actually have access to the vulnerability that creates it because you're just feeling kind of that hit of self-esteem it's not until like I said you feel the pain that comes with that which is that incredible isolation that you're like wait a minute there's a problem before that it's just like yeah look at me comparatively um yeah so I was able to drop down into that that absolute terror of just being like oh no like if I put myself in somebody's hands and they're worse than what does that what does that mean for me it was all around danger right so I allowed myself to go through the terror and I'm talking it was like burn your body up level somatic terror what was really interesting is that what came out of that and it's not like I went and tried to do it I sat with that emotion so long and so deeply and so intensely that that sort of burning pain of the superiority and the fear that was underneath it dissipated and what was left was this very strong awareness and recognition almost like I couldn't see it before of being able to see excellence in a much more crystallized way I was able to see the elements where I have more power than other people because there is a genuine superiority in that moment and where other people are in a position of superiority now that sounds really funny for people because especially in the spiritual field that word superiority inferiority is not well received in fact it's all about equality for people but that is not that is not a thing it's not a thing this is a very unpopular opinion that I have but I feel like it's very necessary for people to hear we are not living in a plane of equality like we can have a conversation around equality of you know purpose and value of the soul and things like that but if you line up one person with another person you go okay jump there's going to be a superiority established in terms of who's a better jumper let's say you have somebody who went to flight school now you have that person behind the the wheel of a plane and me there's going to be a superiority wherever somebody has that element of excellence or that element of skill you've got a power disparity what's so important to recognize is that power disparity not only because it's dangerous when you don't recognize the power that you have or the power that other people have but it's really inefficient when in a moment you could be like you know what this is your area and you're the one that's excellent at this take the wheel we actually get somewhere much faster as a human race even when when we look at each other in this way rather than trying to constantly level the playing field I also feel like when you are able to recognize where you have some element of superiority to the people around you you're actually able to to give away that power and recognize where other people are excellent and where they have the power yeah so what I'm noticing is it doesn't I almost the power struggle goes away and that's really beautiful because you're not in this constant fight you're also not feeling the constant isolation that I was feeling previously you're able to get along in a much more harmonious way people feel safer when you recognize their


(This file is longer than 30 minutes. Go Unlimited at TurboScribe.ai to transcribe files up to 10 hours long.)
